Add annotations reference (#2454)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/reference/platform-api/annotations/_index.md

---

> linkTitle: Annotationa

Author: no :/

title: Kubernetes resource annotation reference
description: Overview of Kubernetes resource annotations used by Giant Swarm, and their meaning.
layout: single
menu:
  principal:
    parent: reference-platform-api
    identifier: reference-platform-api-annotations
weight: 500
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-honeybadger
last_review_date: 2025-01-20
---

**Notice:** Annotations on Kubernetes resources are set by many different parties, and for various reasons. In this overview we explain our reasons for using a relevant set of annotations, and which values or value format is expected. If you are missing information, please consult upstream documentation from Kubernetes etc., or ask a Giant Swarm contact for more information. Also check our corresponding [labels]({{< relref "/reference/platform-api/labels" >}}) reference page.

### network-topology.giantswarm.io/mode

> Found on the Cluster (cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1) resource for Cluster API provider AWS (CAPA) clusters. Specifies how transit gateways for the cluster will get set up in AWS. Possible values are: `None`, `GiantSwarmManaged`, `UserManaged`.

Reviewer: The annotation is set on the `AWSCluster` CR.

```suggestion
Found on the AWSCluster resource for Cluster API provider AWS (CAPA) clusters. Specifies how transit gateways for the cluster will get set up in AWS. Possible values are: `None`, `GiantSwarmManaged`, `UserManaged`.
```

Btw, I'd skip mentioning the version of the CR, otherwise we'll have to keep updating this page for no reason (annotations won't be affected by the CR version).

Author: > Btw, I'd skip mentioning the version of the CR, otherwise we'll have to keep updating this page for no reason (annotations won't be affected by the CR version).

Works for me. I did it because "Cluster" is such a frequent and unspecific term.

BTW, in workload cluster "operations" on gazelle I see all these annotations in the Cluster resource. Only the ".../mode" one also appears on the AWSCLuster resoure.

Reviewer: Our cluster chart only renders these annotations [on the AWSCluster](https://github.com/giantswarm/cluster-aws/blob/main/helm/cluster-aws/templates/_aws_cluster.tpl), so not sure what happened there.

Author: OK. I'll accept your changes here and move on.

More information: [Source](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8smetadata/blob/v0.25.0/pkg/annotation/capa.go#L25-L27)

### network-topology.giantswarm.io/transit-gateway

Found on the Cluster (cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1) resource for Cluster API provider AWS (CAPA) clusters. Specifies the ID of the transit gateway to use when the topology mode (`network-topology.giantswarm.io/mode`) is set to `UserManaged`.

More information: [Source](https://github.com/giantswarm/k8smetadata/blob/v0.25.0/pkg/annotation/capa.go#L33-L35)

### network-topology.giantswarm.io/prefix-list

> Found on the Cluster (cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1) resource for Cluster API provider AWS (CAPA) clusters. Specifies the ID of the managed prefix list to use when the topology mode (`network-topology.giantswarm.io/mode`) is set to `UserManaged`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Found on the AWSCluster resource for Cluster API provider AWS (CAPA) clusters. Specifies the ID of the managed prefix list to use when the topology mode (`network-topology.giantswarm.io/mode`) is set to `UserManaged`.
```
